#coupling
#aggregation


Relationships Between Classes
Chapter 4.1.4 
Page 130

- Dependence ("uses-a")
- Aggreagtion ("has-a")
- Inheritance ("is-a")

The dependence, or “uses–a” relationship, is the most obvious and also the
most general. For example, the Order class uses the Account class because
Order objects need to access Account objects to check for credit status. But
the Item class does not depend on the Account class, because Item objects
never need to worry about customer accounts. Thus, a class depends on
another class if its methods use or manipulate objects of that class.
Try to minimize the number of classes that depend on each other. The point
is, if a class A is unaware of the existence of a class B, it is also unconcerned
about any changes to B. (And this means that changes to B do not introduce
bugs into A.) In software engineering terminology, you want to minimize the
coupling between classes.
The aggregation, or “has–a” relationship, is easy to understand because it is
concrete; for example, an Order object contains Item objects. Containment
means that objects of class A contain objects of class B.

>
NOTE: Some methodologists view the concept of aggregation with disdain and
prefer to use a more general “association” relationship. From the point of
view of modeling, that is understandable. But for programmers, the “has–a”
relationship makes a lot of sense. I like to use aggregation for another reason
as well: The standard notation for associations is less clear. See Table 4.1.


The inheritance, or “is–a” relationship, expresses a relationship between a
more special and a more general class. For example, a RushOrder class
inherits from an Order class. The specialized RushOrder class has special
methods for priority handling and a different method for computing shipping
charges, but its other methods, such as adding items and billing, are inherited
from the Order class. In general, if class D extends class C, class D inherits
methods from class C but has more capabilities. (See the next chapter which
discusses this important notion at some length.)
Many programmers use the UML (Unified Modeling Language) notation to
draw class diagrams that describe the relationships between classes. You can
see an example of such a diagram in Figure 4.2. You draw classes as
rectangles, and relationships as arrows with various adornments. Table 4.1
shows the most common UML arrow styles.
